docs: Added Advanced installation with Argo CD doc (#3335)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/60-new-docs/40-operator-guide/20-advanced-installation/20-advanced-with-argocd.md

sidebar_label: With Argo CD
---

# Installation with Argo CD

This section outlines a few generalized approaches to installing and managing Kargo with non-default configuration options using Argo CD.

:::note
This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please refer to [Basic Installation](../../operator-guide/basic-installation#prerequisites) for more details.
:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

All methods described here will involve deploying Kargo using an Argo CD `Application`
resource that is configured to obtain Kargo's Helm chart directly from its official
repo.

```

> ## Direct Argo CD Application 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `.spec.source.helm.parameters`
```

> The most common way to deploy Kargo using Argo CD is to create an `Application` and use the Helm chart directly. Using this method, you can use the `.spec.source.helm.parameters` section to specify any parameters you may need. This is the most straightforward way to deploy Kargo using Argo CD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most straightforward way to specify chart configuration options is by using the
`Application`'s `.spec.source.helm.parameters` field:
```

:::info
The parameters used are just examples, and you should use the values that are appropriate for your environment. Detailed information about available options can also be found in the [Kargo Helm Chart's README.md](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/tree/main/charts/kargo).
:::

```yaml
---
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  source:
    repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
    chart: kargo
    targetRevision: 1.2.0
    helm:
      parameters:
        - name: api.adminAccount.passwordHash

>           value: "$$2a$$10$$Zrhhie4vLz5ygtVSaif6o.qN36jgs6vjtMBdM6yrU1FOeiAAMMxOm"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          # Note: A bcrypt-hashed password will contain `$` characters that
          # MUST each be escaped as `$$`
          value: <bcrypt-hashed password>
```

>         - name: controller.logLevel
>           value: "DEBUG"
>         - name: api.adminAccount.tokenTTL
>           value: "24h"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - name: api.adminAccount.tokenSigningKey
          value: "iwishtowashmyirishwristwatch"
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

> :::info
> If using the `api.adminAccount.passwordHash` parameter in this method, you must escape the `$` character with `$$` to prevent Helm from interpreting it as a variable. Please see [this discussion](https://discord.com/channels/1138942074998235187/1138946346217394407/1267966083168469102) for more information.
> :::

Reviewer: A previous suggestion puts this in a comment directly above where it's relevant so it
can't be missed.

```suggestion
```

> Conversely, insetad of using the `parameters` field under the `.spec.source.helm` section; you can use the `values` block or `valuesObject` object to specify the values for the Kargo Helm chart. Below is an example of how to use `valuesObject` to specify the values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, instead of using `.spec.source.helm`'s `parameters`, you can use the either of the `values` `valuesObject` fields to specify configuration options for
the chart:
```

```yaml

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  source:
    repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
    chart: kargo
    targetRevision: 1.2.0
    helm:
      valuesObject:
        api:
          adminAccount:

>             passwordHash: $2a$10$Zrhhie4vLz5ygtVSaif6o.qN36jgs6vjtMBdM6yrU1FOeiAAMMxOm
>             tokenSigningKey: iwishtowashmyirishwristwatch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            passwordHash: <bcrypt-hashed password>
            tokenSigningKey: <token signing key>
```

            tokenTTL: 24h
        controller:
          logLevel: DEBUG
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

## Multi-Source Argo CD Application

> Another method is to use a Multi-Source Argo CD Application. Here, you'd use the `.spec.sources` field and store your values files in a separate repository. This is useful if you are using GitOps to track your values configuration changes, but will still use the public Helm chart repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
__Our recommended method__ is to use an `Application` with
[multiple sources](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/multiple_sources/) to reference _both_ the Kargo Helm chart repository a `values.yaml`
of your own from your own Git repository.
Here, you'd use the `.spec.sources` field and store your values files in a separate repository. This is useful if you are using GitOps to track your values configuration changes, but will still use the public Helm chart repository.

__This is our recommendation because it aligns best with with GitOps principles.__
```

> Another method is to use a Multi-Source Argo CD Application. Here, you'd use the `.spec.sources` field and store your values files in a separate repository. This is useful if you are using GitOps to track your values configuration changes, but will still use the public Helm chart repository.
> 
> :::info
> We recommend using this method as it more closely aligns with GitOps principles and best practices.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another method is to use a Multi-Source Argo CD Application. Here, you'd use the `.spec.sources` field and store your values files in a separate repository. This is useful if you are using GitOps to track your values configuration changes, but will still use the public Helm chart repository.

:::info
__Our recommended method__ is to use an `Application` with [multiple sources](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/multiple_sources/) since this aligns best with GitOps principles.
:::
```

> :::info
> We recommend using this method as it more closely aligns with GitOps principles and best practices.
> :::

Reviewer: Factored into text higher up.

```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the configuration below, the second source (the one with `repoURL` pointed at your own Git repository) is assigned a `ref` of `values`. This permits content from that
repository (in particular, a `values.yaml` file) to be referenced by the _other_ source:

```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  sources:
    - repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
      chart: kargo
      targetRevision: 1.2.0
      helm:
        valueFiles:
          - $values/kargo/values.yaml
    - repoURL: https://github.com/<username>/kargo-helm-values
      targetRevision: main
      ref: values
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

> 
> The `parametes` section isn't used in this method, instead the `values.yaml` file is hosted in a separate repository and is referenced using the `ref` field.
> 
> ## What's Next?
> 
> Now that you have deployed Kargo using Argo CD, you can explore the various features and capabilities of Kargo. Please see the [Operator Guide](../../operator-guide/) or the [User Guide](../../user-guide/) for futher information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

sidebar_label: With Argo CD
---

# Installation with Argo CD

> This section outlines a few generalized approaches to installing and managing Kargo with non-default configuration options using Argo CD.
> 
> :::note
> This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please refer to [Basic Installation](../../operator-guide/basic-installation#prerequisites) for more details.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document outlines a few generalized approaches to installing and managing
Kargo using Argo CD.
:::note
This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or
prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please refer
to [Basic Installation](../../operator-guide/basic-installation#prerequisites)
for more details.
:::
```

> All methods described here will involve deploying Kargo using an Argo CD
> `Application` resource that is configured to obtain Kargo's Helm chart directly
> from its official repo. We will demonstrate a variety of ways to specify
> your own configuration values using `api.adminAccount.passwordHash` and `api.adminAccount.tokenSigningKey` as examples since you are _required_ to
> provide values for these anyway (unless
> [the admin account is disabled instead](../40-security/10-secure-configuration.md#disabling-the-admin-account)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All methods described here will involve deploying Kargo using an Argo CD
`Application` resource that is configured to obtain Kargo's Helm chart directly
from its official repo. We will demonstrate a variety of ways to specify your
own configuration values using `api.adminAccount.passwordHash` and
`api.adminAccount.tokenSigningKey` as examples since you are _required_ to
provide values for these anyway (unless
[the admin account is disabled instead](../40-security/10-secure-configuration.md#disabling-the-admin-account)).
```

> Recommended commands for generating a complex password and signing key, and for hashing the password as required are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Recommended commands for generating a complex password and signing key, and for
hashing the password as required are:
```

```console
pass=$(openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d "=+/" | head -c 32)
echo "Password: $pass"
echo "Password Hash: $(htpasswd -bnBC 10 "" $pass | tr -d ':\n')"
echo "Signing Key: $(openssl rand -base64 48 | tr -d "=+/" | head -c 32)"
```

:::note

> Methods of securing the admin account are explored in greater detail [here](../40-security/10-secure-configuration.md#securing-the-admin-account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods of securing the admin account are explored in greater detail
[here](../40-security/10-secure-configuration.md#securing-the-admin-account).
```

:::

## `spec.source.helm.parameters`

The most straightforward way to specify chart configuration options is by using the
`Application`'s `spec.source.helm.parameters` field:

> :::info
> The parameters used are just examples, and you should use the values that are appropriate for your environment. Detailed information about available options can also be found in the [Kargo Helm Chart's README.md](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/tree/main/charts/kargo).
> :::
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```yaml

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  source:
    repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
    chart: kargo
    targetRevision: 1.2.0
    helm:
      parameters:
        - name: api.adminAccount.passwordHash
          # Note: A bcrypt-hashed password will contain `$` characters that
          # MUST each be escaped as `$$`
          value: <bcrypt-hashed password>
        - name: api.adminAccount.tokenSigningKey
          value: <token signing key>
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## `spec.source.helm.values`

> Alternatively, instead of using `spec.source.helm`'s `parameters` field, you can use the either of the `values` or `valuesObject` fields to specify configuration options for the chart:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alternatively, instead of using `spec.source.helm`'s `parameters` field, you can
use either of its `values` or `valuesObject` fields to specify configuration
options for the chart:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  source:
    repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
    chart: kargo
    targetRevision: 1.2.0
    helm:
      valuesObject:
        api:
          adminAccount:
            passwordHash: <bcrypt-hashed password>
            tokenSigningKey: <token signing key>
            tokenTTL: 24h
        controller:
          logLevel: DEBUG
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

## Multi-Source Argo CD Application

> __Our recommended method__ is to use an `Application` with
> [multiple sources](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/multiple_sources/) to reference _both_ the Kargo Helm chart repository a `values.yaml`
> of your own from your own Git repository.
> 
> __This is our recommendation because it aligns best with with GitOps principles.__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most advanced method covered here __is nevertheless our recommendation
because it aligns best with with GitOps principles.__ Use an `Application`
with
[multiple sources](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/multiple_sources)
to reference _both_ the Kargo Helm chart repository and a `values.yaml` file of
your own from your own Git repository.

:::info
An added benefit to this approach is that if you have other resources to
include in the Kargo installation, such as
[`SealedSecret`s](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets) or
[`ExternalSecret`s](https://external-secrets.io/latest/), they also can
be obtained from your own Git repository using the second source.
:::
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In the configuration below, the second source (the one with `repoURL` pointed at your own Git repository) is assigned a `ref` of `values`. This permits content from that
> repository (in particular, a `values.yaml` file) to be referenced by the _other_ source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In the configuration below, the second source (the one with `repoURL` pointed at
your own Git repository) is assigned a `ref` of `values`. This permits content
from that repository (in particular, a `values.yaml` file) to be referenced by
the _other_ source. We _also_ use the `path` parameter as usual to direct the
second source to the location of additional manifests to include in the `kargo`
namespace along with the chart:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  sources:
    - repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
      chart: kargo
      targetRevision: 1.2.0
      helm:
        valueFiles:
          - $values/kargo/values.yaml
    - repoURL: https://github.com/<username>/kargo-helm-values
      targetRevision: main

>       ref: values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      ref: values
      path: kargo/additional-manifests
```

sidebar_label: With Argo CD
---

# Installation with Argo CD

This section outlines a few generalized approaches to installing and managing Kargo with non-default configuration options using Argo CD.

:::note

> This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please see the [installation guide](../../40-operator-guide/10-basic-installation.md#prerequisites) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please refer to [Basic Installation guide](../../40-operator-guide/10-basic-installation.md#prerequisites) for more details.
```

your own from your own Git repository.

:::info
An added benefit to this approach is that if you have other resources to
include in the Kargo installation, such as
[`SealedSecret`s](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets) or
[`ExternalSecret`s](https://external-secrets.io/latest/), they also can
be obtained from your own Git repository using the second source.
:::

In the configuration below, the second source (the one with `repoURL` pointed at
your own Git repository) is assigned a `ref` of `values`. This permits content
from that repository (in particular, a `values.yaml` file) to be referenced by
the _other_ source. We _also_ use the `path` parameter as usual to direct the
second source to the location of additional manifests to include in the `kargo`
namespace along with the chart:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  sources:
    - repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
      chart: kargo
      targetRevision: 1.2.0
      helm:
        valueFiles:
          - $values/kargo/values.yaml

>     - repoURL: https://github.com/<username>/kargo-helm-values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - repoURL: https://github.com/example/repo.git
```

> # Advanced Installation with Argo CD

Reviewer: I'm iffy on the title. I think the notion of installing Kargo _using_ Argo CD is what is advanced -- in the sense of it being "GitOps all the way down." But this could be mistaken as being advanced _methods_ of doing so, as compared to some more basic method of installing via Argo CD, which doesn't exist. For Helm, we _did_ roll with the title "Advanced Installation with Helm" since we _did_ also document a more basic Helm-based installation procedure.

I can see any possible confusion over the title being resolved either by changing it:

```suggestion
# Installation with Argo CD
```

OR

Clarifying statements in the body of the page... so maybe we come back to the subject of the title after working out everything else on the page...

Author: I agree with this! I think the notion of "Advanced Installation" needs to be on something like a "Best Practices" document or a "Reference Implementation" Document. I'll commit the changes

> This section outlines the various advanced installation options available for deploying Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster using Argo CD.

Reviewer: Referring back to [this comment](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/pull/3335/files#r1925603671), this might be an opportunity to provide more clarity.

```suggestion
This section outlines a few generalized approaches to installing and managing Kargo with non-default configuration options using Argo CD.
```

> :::warning
> This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please see the [installation guide](../../40-operator-guide/10-basic-installation.md#prerequisites) for more information.
> :::

Reviewer: Only for consistency, I might make this a note instead of a warning. The way I've been using the "severity" levels here is:

* info == here's more information if you're interested (generally safe to skip)
* note == you should probably look at this
* warning/caution == there's danger ahead if you _don't_ look at this

I think the danger here is minimal since it's just going to fail the installation and not irreparably break anything, although I'm willing to be convinced otherwise.

```suggestion
:::note
This section assumes that you have already installed any dependencies or prerequisites required for running Kargo on a Kubernetes cluster. Please see the [installation guide](../../40-operator-guide/10-basic-installation.md#prerequisites) for more information.
:::
```

Author: I was actually wondering how we define these note "levels". I lean on just keeping it consistent with the rest of the documentation; and since I don't have a strong opinion I'm just going to follow convention here.

## Argo CD Helm Application

> The most common way to deploy Kargo using Argo CD is to create a Helm `Application`, and use the `.spec.source.helm.parameters` section to specify any parameters you may need. This is the most straightforward way to deploy Kargo using Argo CD.

Reviewer: The notion of a Helm Application and especially a Helm `Application` seems like it might be slightly confusing terminology.

I would probably say something about Kargo being packaged as a Helm chart and that you'll show how to use an Argo CD `Application` to deploy Kargo straight from its own chart repository with two different options for how non-default configuration values can be specified.

Author: ACK, that's a good point; because in either case you're still using the Helm chart

:::info
If using the `api.adminAccount.passwordHash` parameter, you must escape the `$` character with `$$` to prevent Helm from interpreting it as a variable. Please see [this discussion](https://discord.com/channels/1138942074998235187/1138946346217394407/1267966083168469102) for more information.
:::

```yaml
---
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  source:
    repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
    chart: kargo
    targetRevision: 1.2.0
    helm:
      parameters:
        - name: api.adminAccount.passwordHash
          value: "$$2a$$10$$Zrhhie4vLz5ygtVSaif6o.qN36jgs6vjtMBdM6yrU1FOeiAAMMxOm"
        - name: controller.logLevel
          value: "DEBUG"
        - name: api.adminAccount.tokenTTL
          value: "24h"
        - name: api.adminAccount.tokenSigningKey

>           value: "iwishtowashmyirishwristwatch"

Reviewer: We need to somehow make it clear that:

* These are _example_ params and that you should use different values if installing anywhere other than a local cluster.
* Any/all installation options can be configured in this manner. A link out to the chart's readme might be in order.

@fykaa did it like this:

https://newdocs.docs.kargo.io/new-docs/operator-guide/advanced-installation/advanced-with-helm

  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

> Conversely, insetad of using the `parameters` field under the `.spec.source.helm` section; you can use the `values` block or `valuesObject` object to specify the values for the Kargo Helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, instead of using the `.spec.source.helm` section's `parameters` field, you can use that same section's `values` or `valuesObject` fields to specify installation options.
```

Would it be worth adding an explicit example of this? tbh, I'd have to hit the Argo CD docs to figure this out, so most readers would probably find this to be a "cliff" as well.

Author: @krancour I thought about this too. I wanted to avoid providing an example for each implementation because it's really a matter of preference for the end user at that point (i.e. "no best practices here, do what works for you" sort of thing).

Maybe just link to the Argo CD docs that talks about these methods? There's *really* no pros/cons for these methods if that helps the decision any.

Author: I added an example

> Another method is to use `.spec.sources` and store your values files in a separate repository. This is useful if you are using GitOps to track your values configuration changes, which still use the public Helm chart repository.

Reviewer: > For the recommended approach should this be in an info block or should be explicitly state it in the paragraph?

I think an info block would raise its level of visibility.

```yaml
---
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: kargo
  namespace: argocd
spec:
  project: default
  destination:
    namespace: kargo
    server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
  sources:
    - repoURL: ghcr.io/akuity/kargo-charts
      chart: kargo
      targetRevision: 1.2.0
      helm:
        valueFiles:
          - $values/kargo/values.yaml
    - repoURL: https://github.com/<username>/kargo-helm-values
      targetRevision: main
      ref: values
  syncPolicy:
    automated:
      prune: true
      selfHeal: true
    syncOptions:
    - CreateNamespace=true
```

> Here, the `parametes` seciton isn't used and instead, the `values.yaml` file is hosted in a separate repository and is referenced using the `ref` field.

Reviewer 2: Section spelled wrong

> ## Argo CD Kustomize Application

Author: Do you mean this sentence specifically or the example itself? I only ask because your[ other comment ](https://github.com/akuity/kargo/pull/3335#discussion_r1925651536) indicated that this was the recommended approach.

> ## Argo CD Kustomize Application

Reviewer: Sorry for any confusion. I think a multi-source App with one source being the public chart repo and the other being a private repo with your own values.yaml is the ideal approach.

I was suggesting the Helm + Kustomize approach wouldn't likely yield much mileage.

I know you mentioned on one of the other comments not wanting to go overboard with too many examples. If we lost this whole Helm + Kustomize section, we could probably afford to give an example of `values` or `valuesObject` without getting ourselves into "wall of text" territory.

> ## Argo CD Kustomize Application

Author: I added a `valuesObject` example but kept the Kustomize example based on @dhpup 's and @blakepettersson 's feedback. I'll let @jessesuen weigh in though.
